README.md, before:

# IOS scroll bug with fixed positioned contents

## _Proplem_

When we have overlay or modals which have position fixed, we should be able to scroll if content does not fit screen. And you scroll fixed positioned content, the body below the overlay should not scroll.

## _Solution_

Typical solution for this it to disable scroll on body when fixed-positioned overlay is opened. This solution works fine for desktops, androids but there seem to have some issues with getting it right with IOS safari.

---

\
This repo has some examples in reactjs using different solutions but none worked for me so far.

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development and open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.

## Test this locally with your ios phone

### Method 1:

- Use [localtunnel](https://www.npmjs.com/package/localtunnel) using command below \
  `npx localtunnel --port 3000`
- Copy the generated link and paste it in your ios safari

> hot reloading did not work very well for me so I used `ngrok` instead

### Method 2:

- Set up [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and access token on your machine
- Generate tunnel link using `{PATH_TO_NGROK}/ngrok http 3000`
- Copy the generated link and paste it in your ios safari

> `ngrok http 3000` if ngrok is located in current directtory

Commit message:

Added notes (recordings will be added)

README.md, after:

# IOS scroll bug with fixed positioned contents

## _Proplem_

When we have overlay or modals which have position fixed, we should be able to scroll if content does not fit screen. And you scroll fixed positioned content, the body below the overlay should not scroll.

## _Solution_

Typical solution for this it to disable scroll on body when fixed-positioned overlay is opened. This solution works fine for desktops, androids but there seem to have some issues with getting it right with IOS safari.

---

\
This repo has some examples in reactjs using different solutions but none worked for me so far.

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development and open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.

## Recordings

1. Without body scroll lock

Notes to take from video.
- I could reach to bottom close button because body kept scrolling
- Before I open the overlay, body content was on topmost. But after closing, it was on bottommost

2. Using `useLockBodyScroll` from [react-use](https://github.com/streamich/react-use)

Notes to take from video recording
- Scroll was locked for both body and overlay when overlay is opened but only body scroll should be locked

3. Using `useLockBodyScroll` from [usehooks](https://usehooks.com/)

Notes to take from video recording
- I opened overlay from bottommost `open` button. So the body conent should stay here when I come back from overlay.
- I was able to reach to the bottom of overlay (I could not reach in first example, when body scroll was not locked)
- Despite body scroll lock, I was able to scroll body up after scrolling up overlay. As a result, I was seeing topmost body content instead of bottommost where I opened overlay.

Conclusion, neither of 2 solutions above did not work as expected. 

## Test this locally with your ios phone

### Method 1:

- Use [localtunnel](https://www.npmjs.com/package/localtunnel) using command below \
  `npx localtunnel --port 3000`
- Copy the generated link and paste it in your ios safari

> hot reloading did not work very well for me so I used `ngrok` instead

### Method 2:

- Set up [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and access token on your machine
- Generate tunnel link using `{PATH_TO_NGROK}/ngrok http 3000`
- Copy the generated link and paste it in your ios safari

> `ngrok http 3000` if ngrok is located in current directtory
